# VBA Stocks Analysis
## An Analysis of Green Stocks
### Breaking down data by building macros and creating visualizations utilizing VBA


###### Overview of Project
The purpose of VBA Stocks Analysis is to provide Steve and his parents with an overview of how Daqo's stock has performed in 2017 and 2018. The Analysis will aid their investment decision. Steve personally is looking to find the total daily volume and yearly return for each stock. His parents are interested in how actively Daqo's stock was traded in 2018. Their beliefs is if it was traded often, the price will accurately reflect the value of the stock.
###### Results
The main goal is to find Steve's primary request, which is Total Daily Volume and Yearly Return. We will Analyze for both 2017 and 2018 by leaving the "yearValue" open in our macro by using,  Range("A1").Value = "All Stocks (" + yearValue + ")". Total Daily Volume total number of shares traded throughout the day and Yearly Return is the percent difference in price from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. These 2 calculations make up our All Stocks Analysis. The All Stocks Analysis is a visual of the success and failure of the stock list provided in the data pack we were provided with. 2017, looked to be a good year for DQ and many of the other stocks on the list. All but one experienced an increase in their Yearly Return. DQ actually saw about a 200% increase. However, 2018, was a different story. Stocks dropped, but not all at the same rate. DQ saw the largest rate of decrease after seeing the largest rate of increase. Overall, The suggestion is to not invest in DQ. If they are adamant about investing in a stock immediately the only suggestion would be the RUN Stock and it saw a increase in Yearly Return between the years. However, my gut suggestion would be to watch the market a little longer before making an investment based on this group of stocks or find a more stable group of stocks to invest in. 
###### Summary
The advantages of refactoring is having the ability to have a working code in front of you. Having that visual and to be able to manipulate how everything works and breaks down versus trying to remember element of macros/ code is a significant advantage. A couple of the disadvantages are being a beginner and the pace at which we are moving. Thus, making code that should be easy to refactor and breakdown a bit challenging. The advantages of the original and refactored VBA script were the repetitious nature and being able to look at each one and see what may be in correct or a possible refactor. The disadvantages were the limited online help and troubleshooting resources. Several times I tried to find how to fix an error and could not find anything similar to what I was experiencing. 
